California Poppy
Valerian
Ginseng 
St Johns Wort ? (Hypericum perforatum) 
Marshmallow ? (Althaea officinalis) 
Lobelia ? (Lobelia inflata) 
Oats ? (Avena sativa) 
Slippery Elm ? (Ulmus rubra, or Red Elm) 
Peppermint ? (Mentha x piperita) 

Ashwagandha – Is an Ayurvedic herb with tonic, adaptogenic, sedative, anti-inflammatory, and anti-aging properties. It is ideal for treating a debilitated but overactive person. It also makes a person feel more grounded, helping to prevent relapse from addiction. It is especially effective in treating nervous exhaustion due to stress.

    Basil leaf - Acts as a nerve restorative, calming feelings of anxiety and depression.

    Dandelion root – Acts as a liver detoxifier and digestive stimulant.

    Danshen – Has been demonstrated in scientific studies to reduce alcohol cravings and intake, prevent alcohol absorption, inhibit certain drinking behaviors and prevent drinking relapses from occurring.

    Kava – Is a potent anti-anxiety herb, mild sedative, skeletal muscle relaxant, hypnotic, mild analgesic, and a local anesthetic to mucous membranes. Kava is safe and non-addictive so it is beneficial to addicts that suffer from anxiety, nervous tension, restlessness, sleeplessness, and depression.

    Kudzu – Consists of an antidipsotropic ingredient, Diadzin that causes a negative physical response when alcohol is consumed therefore diminishing the continued urge to drink. Science has also demonstrated Kudzu to reduce withdrawal symptoms as well actual alcohol intake.

    Lemon balm leaf – Reduces withdrawal symptoms by supporting the nervous system and uplifting the overall mood.

    Oatstraw herb – Acts as a nerve tonic and antidepressant. They nourish the nervous system, speed wound healing, and soothe irritated tissues. They calm a stressed nervous system and strengthen it from exhaustion or depression.

    Passionflower – Reduces withdrawal symptoms from nicotine, alcohol, marijuana, opiates, painkillers and associated sexual behaviors.

    Saint Johns Wort – Carries anti-depressant effects and reduces the addictive urge to drink and take prescriptive drugs such as Prozac and other anti-depressants.

    Skullcap herb – Regulates emotions, calms anxiety and enhances awareness of addictive behaviors. Skullcap is also a nerve restorative that reduces withdrawal symptoms such as panic, tremors and nightmares.

    Valerian – Is a herb from which Valium derives, valerian acts as a natural sedative, calming the nerves and allowing for detoxification to take place.
aunéé
astragale
eleutherocoque
rhodiola
schizandra

	Herbal treatment will vary depending upon the abused substance and overall
health of addict. To minimize withdrawal symptoms, withdrawal from any drug should 
probably be done slowly although some addicts may find it possible, even beneficial,
to go cold-turkey. The task of quitting cannot be accomplished alone and 
professional help should be found if at all possible for best results. 
It helps to find someone that will hold the addict accountable for their actions.

Whilst Western medicine can offer many treatments, herbal medicine is the ideal 
complementary therapy to consider when dealing with an addiction of any kind. 
Please read on for more information.

Herbal Medicine and Addiction

Herbal medicine employs the use of medicinal plants and herbs to treat addictions, 
to relieve its symptoms and to assist the individual in reaching an optimum state 
of health.
How Does Herbal Medicine Benefit Addiction Problems?

With most addictions, a person is left with decreased immunity, a shot nervous 
system and a badly damaged spirit. Herbal medicine aims to treat addictions by 
using herbs that:

    Holistically address the mind/body system
    Detoxify the body from the addictive substance (by using blood-cleansing herbs)
    Counteract the stress response and strengthen the adrenal glands
    Promote feelings of relaxation
    Reduce anxiety levels
    Promote good digestion and absorption

 